[Bus honking]

Scientists, are you ready for a 
virtual field trip from sunny Los Angeles?

Let's go to the California Science Center! 

[Children cheering]

[Children cheering] 
With your hosts

Mariela

and Monica

with a special appearance from

Crystal Gentle!

Let's go to the California Science Center! 

[Children cheering]

Hi scientists, welcome to Virtual Field Trips 
at the California Science Center!  

Before we get started,
there are a few things we need to go over. 

[Music]

All Virtual Field Trips will have 
a Question of the Day and today's question is...

[Computer beeping] 
How do parents make sure their babies stay alive?

Pause the video now to write down the 
Question of the Day in your notebooks and don't forget  

to write or draw things you observe in 
the video to help you answer the question.

[Music]

All Virtual Field Trips will also 
have a buzzword!

Today's buzzword is...

[Magical sound]

Pattern! 

Anytime you hear this word, be sure to make
check marks or tally marks somewhere in your notebook

to keep track of how many times 
you hear the buzzword!   

Before I forget, there may be times when we ask you
to pause to think about a question.

You'll see this sign and hear this sound [Ding]
to remind you to pause.

Okay, I think we're ready for a Virtual Field Trip. Let's go!

[Music]

Scientists, I wanted to start here in this 
library to show some books that I've been reading.  

If you notice, they are about plants and animals. 
In science, scientists are always looking for 

patterns around them to understand what is going on,
like patterns on leaves, in sunsets and sunrises,  

and between adult dogs and their babies! 
We don't just look for patterns and colors or numbers,  

but we use patterns to understand how things work. 
I've been learning about parents and baby plants and animals,  

and in my books, I'm noticing patterns! 
The baby plant or animal have some way that they look similar to their parents!

All this reading has me wondering 
if the California Science Center has parents and babies we can see.

I know a place we can explore our question. Let's go! 

Now I'm guessing that when you 
heard the words 'parent' and 'baby',  

you begin to think about animals and their cute babies! 
But my first thought brought us here  

to the greenhouse at the California Science Center.

Now, this place is special because not everybody 
can come here, but this greenhouse is where  

scientists are making sure that plants 
are getting what they need to survive. 

Many of the plants that start here 
are very small. They are baby plants!  

The California Science Center is growing 
these plants to add to our exhibits.  

Let's take a closer look at this dwarf banana plant.
I know it may look big, but this plant is a baby or young plant.

What are some things that you notice?
Are all the colors on the plant the same? 

What about the shape of the leaves? 
How do these compare to other leaves you've seen? 

I wonder how long the leaves are? 
Maybe we can measure them. 

Oh, this one is 12 inches long!

What about the size of the plant? 
Maybe we can measure that as well.

Wow, it measures 26 inches high!

Let's make some more observations and 
see what patterns we might find.

Let's keep in mind we saw here and see if we can notice
patterns of things it has in common with the older plant.  

Scientists, are you wondering what that 
young dwarf banana plant looks like as an adult? 

Follow me this way!

Ah, here it is! This is what 
the baby plant will look like as an adult. 

What are some things you notice with the adult plant?

What is that growing on it? 

Are all the colors the same?

Let's start with the leaves like we did with the baby.
Let's measure the leaves on this adult plant.  

Wow, 24 inches long!  

The leaves of the adult are about as large 
as the entire baby dwarf banana plant!  

I wonder how tall this adult plant is? 

Oh it's 52 inches tall, much taller than the baby plant!  

Now that we have both plants side by side, 
what are some patterns that you notice?

What do these two plants have in common?

Does the baby plant look like the parent plant?  

Wow scientists, I noticed so many patterns between 
the baby and parent plants. 

I wonder if we could find patterns in animals? 
I know an animal we can observe. Let's go!  

Scientists, here we have the next parent we're going to observe.  

This is an anole lizard. Let's make some observations of this parent. 

What do you notice? What color are the anoles? 

I wonder how long these adult anoles are?

Oh, they're about 10 inches long!

What do you notice about their tails? 

Remember, we want to find patterns between  
the parent and babies and since we haven't seen the baby anole, 

we need to make those observations of this parent 
and notice as many details as we can.  

I have a surprise, scientist! 
I'm going to take you behind the scenes again  

to find the baby anoles! Let's go!  

This is a baby anole. What do you see? 
Remember, we want to find patterns,  

ways that the babies are similar to the parents. 
Let's measure it! 

Wow, this one is about four to six inches long!  

What color are these baby anoles? 
Do their bodies look like their parents?  

I'm starting to see how baby plants and animals 
are similar to their parents. I'm thinking we can catch up with someone else  

that can help us find more parents 
and babies here at the California Science Center.

[Music]

Hi, I'm Crystal! I'm one of the aquarists here at the California Science Center. 
We're currently in front of our Kelp Forest exhibit

and I'm here to tell you about baby fish, or what scientists like to call a 'juvenile fish', 
and their parents and see how similar or how different they are!

In the ocean, there are lots of animals that 
lay eggs and from some of those eggs we can get baby fish 

that can look very different from their parents.  

Then there are some fish that give live birth, 
just like our pile surfperch!

Those baby fish look like mini copies of their parents 
and, unlike humans who take care of their babies,

surfperch fish do not. Once the babies are born, 
they have to learn to live on their own. 

In order to protect our surfperch babies here 
at the California Science Center from predators in our kelp forest, 

we separate the babies into smaller tanks 
where we feed them and watch over them

until they're old enough, and big enough, to 
join the other fish in our Kelp Forest exhibit.  

What are some patterns you notice 
between the baby and the adult pile perch?  

Now what are some other patterns you notice 
between these babies and the adults?

Thank you for joining me today on our Science Talk about baby fish! 
I hope to see you around!

[Music]

Hi scientists! Today, we are going to 
sing a song with some of my friends!  

Let me introduce you to them. 
These are the Science Songbirds!

[Birds chirping]

They want to share a song about parents 
and their offspring, or babies!   

Some animals take great care of their babies, while other animal babies don't even need their mom or dad.

There are lots of ways animals might take care of their babies. Let's look at some animals and see if we can figure out how!  

What do you see in this picture?
How is the mother dog caring for her puppies?  

How about this? Do you see the baby birds 
with their mouths open? What is their mother doing?  

What about this mouse and its baby?
Can you see what's happening?  

So what do all these pictures have in common? 
The parents are feeding their babies!  

Scientists call babies 'offspring' and here to teach us 
a song about parents and their offspring  

are our very own Science Songbirds!
Listen to the Science Songbirds and try to sing along!   

♪ Parents take care of their offspring, 
parents take care of their babies. Parents take care of their offspring. ♪

♪ They give them food to eat. They give them food to eat, 
they give them food to eat. ♪   

♪ Parents take care of their offspring, 
parents take care of their babies. Parents take care of their offspring, ♪

♪ They give them food to eat ♪

Great job! Now let's look at some more animals 
taking care of their offspring.  

Look carefully! What do you see in this picture? 

How about these elephants? Can you see how
they're gathering around the baby? Why do they do that?

This bird is called a killdeer. 
Can you see how it's protecting its eggs?  

How are all these parents in the pictures 
taking care of their babies? They are keeping them safe.

Parents take care of their offspring 
by protecting them from danger.  

Science Songbirds, do you have something to say about that? 

♪ Parents take care of their offspring, 
parents take care of their babies. Parents take care of their offspring, ♪  

♪ Protect them from danger, protect them from danger, 
protect them from danger ♪   

♪ Parents take care of their offspring, 
parents take care of their babies. Parents take care of their offspring, ♪  

♪ Protect them from danger. ♪   

Beautiful! Now, let's take a look at a few more animal families!

Look at this mama bear and her cub. 
What is the cub doing? Is he trying to climb over the log?  

What do you think his mother is doing?  

How about this moose? 
Do you think the baby knows how to cross the river on its own?  

Parents teach their babies 
many skills they need to survive.

Take it away, Science Songbirds!

♪ Parents take care of their offspring, 
parents take care of their babies. Parents take care of their offspring, ♪  

♪ They teach them lots of skills, they teach them 
lots of skills, they teach them lots of skills. ♪  

♪ Parents take care of their offspring, 
parents take care of their babies. Parents take care of their offspring, ♪  

♪ They teach them lots of skills. ♪  

And last but not least, let's look at a few more animals! 
What do you see in these pictures?

All these babies are snuggling up with their mamas! 
Even wild animals show affection to their offspring,

hugging them, rubbing heads with them, 
playing with them, even cleaning them.  

You know the song by now! 
Join the Science Songbirds for our last verse! 

♪ Parents take care of their offspring, 
parents take care of their babies. Parents take care of their offspring, ♪  

♪ They love them very much, they love them very 
much, they love them very much. ♪ 

♪ Parents take care of their offspring, 
parents take care of their babies. Parents take care of their offspring, ♪  

♪ They love them very much! ♪  

That was fun, scientists! 
Let's head back to the Discovery Room!

What a great field trip! Let's go over all the things 
that we did today! 

We started our field trip in a library to talk about patterns, 

then we visited the greenhouse 
to make observations of a young dwarf banana plant.

That led us to make observations of the parent plant 
and made side-by-side observations.

We then made observations of parent and baby anole lizards
 and found that both baby and parents look very similar! 

Finally we sing a song with Mariela and the Science Songbirds
about how parents help their offspring survive!

Do you remember the Question of the Day?
Can you use the buzzword to answer the Question of the Day?

[Ding] Pause the video now to try to answer the
Question of the Day using the buzzword!

How do parents make sure their babies stay alive? 

Okay scientists, it's time to count our check marks.
How many times did you hear the buzzword?  

[Ding] Pause the video now to count your check marks or tally marks!

Drum roll please! And the answer is...  

Drum roll please! And the answer is...  15!

We hope you had fun on 
this Virtual Field Trip at the California Science Center

and we look forward to seeing you next time!

For more Virtual Field Trip fun, visit our website!

